Title: Into the Omniverse: Open-Source Physics Engine and OpenUSD Advance Robot Learning
Source: https://blogs.nvidia.com/blog/newton-physics-engine-openusd/

---

Into the Omniverse: Open-Source Physics Engine and OpenUSD Advance Robot Learning
The Newton physics engine and enhanced NVIDIA Isaac GR00T models enable developers to accelerate robot learning through unified OpenUSD simulation workflows.
September 30, 2025
by
Akhil Docca
Share
Email
0
Editor’s note: This blog is a part of
Into the Omniverse
, a series focused on how developers, 3D practitioners and enterprises can transform their workflows using the latest advances in OpenUSD and NVIDIA Omniverse.
Building robots that can effectively operate alongside human workers in factories, hospitals and public spaces presents an enormous technical challenge. These robots require humanlike dexterity, perception, cognition and whole-body coordination to navigate unpredictable real-world environments in real time.
A
“sim-first” approach
unlocks these critical skills by enabling parallel training of hundreds or thousands of robot instances using real robot-captured data and
synthetic data
in simulation environments.
Universal Scene Description
(OpenUSD) provides the foundational framework for this advanced robot development, serving as a scalable, interoperable data standard that enables developers to build physically accurate virtual worlds where robots can practice and perfect their skills before transferring them to real-world applications.
Accelerating Physical AI Development
NVIDIA announced at the Conference on Robot Learning this week groundbreaking advances in open-source physics simulation, open foundation models and development frameworks, including:
Newton Physics Engine
: While robots learn faster and safer in
simulation
,
humanoid robots
— with complex joints, balance and movements — are pushing today’s physics engines to the limit.
Codeveloped by Google DeepMind, Disney Research and NVIDIA, and
managed by the Linux Foundation
,
Newton
is an open-source, GPU-accelerated physics engine to advance robot learning.
Built on
NVIDIA Warp
and
OpenUSD
, Newton enables robots to learn complex tasks more precisely while working seamlessly with
robot learning
frameworks like MuJoCo Playground and
NVIDIA Isaac Lab
.
Tune in to an upcoming
livestream for a Newton beta demonstration
to learn about Newton’s core features and how to get started on Newton with NVIDIA Isaac Lab.
Isaac GR00T N1.6
: To perform humanlike tasks in the physical world, humanoids must understand ambiguous instructions and navigate unforeseen scenarios. The latest Isaac GR00T N1.6 open robot foundation model, available soon on Hugging Face, integrates
NVIDIA Cosmos Reason
, an open reasoning vision language model built for
physical AI
. Cosmos Reason serves as the robot’s deep-thinking brain and transforms vague instructions into step-by-step action plans using prior knowledge, common sense and physics understanding.
NVIDIA Isaac Lab
:
The latest version of Isaac Lab, an open-source, modular robot learning framework built on NVIDIA Isaac Sim and OpenUSD, is now available as an early developer release. Version 2.3 brings a host of new features to robotics researchers and developers, including advanced whole-body control and expanded teleoperation for data collection.
OpenUSD’s interoperability ensures these advanced physics simulations, foundation models and learning frameworks work together seamlessly, enabling developers to build unified
robot learning
pipelines that scale across different platforms and deployment scenarios.
See How Developers Are Accelerating Robot Learning
Leading humanoid and robotics developers, including Agility Robotics, Lightwheel, Mentee, Universal Robots and Wandelbots are adopting simulation technologies and libraries to accelerate physical AI development and deployment.
Agility Robotics
uses NVIDIA Isaac Lab to train a whole-body control foundation model for its Digit robot. Isaac Sim and OpenUSD enable precise digital twin creation of customer facilities, delivering a scalable way to optimize the robot’s operation before deployment.
Lightwheel
developed the Lightwheel Simulation Platform, built on
NVIDIA Omniverse
. Lightwheel is also building
simulation-ready assets
that use the NVIDIA USD Search application programming interface to streamline asset discovery and assemble accurate digital twins to help robotics developers accelerate their training and simulation workflows.
Mentee Robotics
harnesses
NVIDIA’s three-computer architecture
to develop MenteeBot’s sophisticated learning capabilities, using OpenUSD as the foundation for developing synthetic data generation pipelines in Isaac Sim.
Universal Robots
uses the NVIDIA Isaac platform for comprehensive robot simulation and learning, tapping OpenUSD to create interoperable digital twins of manufacturing environments that validate cobot safety protocols and optimize human-robot interaction across diverse industrial settings. Inbolt, a partner in the Universal Robots ecosystem, delivers dynamic vision guidance systems that enable robots to adapt to their environment on the fly, handling production variations with ease.
Wandelbots
, a German robotics software company, is helping Volkswagen shorten automation projects at its Transparent Factory in Dresden.
Using Wandelbots NOVA, a robotics platform with deep integration into Isaac Sim, developers can build, train, test and validate their pick-and-place applications with a virtual twin before deployment.
NVIDIA’s open frameworks and libraries are also being adopted by developers within the robotics community. Community member and NVIDIA Omniverse ambassador Dylan Tobin
created an AI chatbot
trained on Isaac Sim workflows to help developers navigate Omniverse more efficiently.
See how other developers in the community are using Isaac Sim and Isaac Lab for innovation in robotics navigation, control and reinforcement learning by watching this livestream replay:
Plus, an NVIDIA Robotics office hours session demonstrates how Brev makes it easy to run Isaac Sim and Isaac Lab on Omniverse:
Get Plugged Into the World of OpenUSD
To learn more about robot learning with OpenUSD and NVIDIA’s latest robotics technologies, explore these resources:
Watch
a
tutorial on how to teach a robot new skills fast
with Isaac GR00T N1.5.
Read
three ways to use OpenUSD in robotics workflows
to significantly reduce deployment time and improve robot simulation and training performance.
Listen
to the NVIDIA AI Podcast episode on
the future of robot learning and simulation
with Seattle Robotics Lab lead Yashraj Narang.
Train
using the
NVIDIA Robotics Fundamentals Learning Path
, which covers basic robotics and advanced AI-powered automation.
Attend
Physical AI and Robotics Day
on Tuesday, Oct. 28, at NVIDIA GTC Washington, D.C., which will feature curated sessions on how digital twins, robot learning and OpenUSD are shaping the future of physical AI. Earn an industry-recognized
OpenUSD Development certification
, offered at no additional charge to conference attendees.
Stay up to date by subscribing to
NVIDIA Omniverse news
, joining the Omniverse
community
and following Omniverse on
Discord
,
Instagram
,
LinkedIn
,
Threads
,
X
and
YouTube
.
Explore the
Alliance for OpenUSD forum
and the
AOUSD website
.
Categories:
Pro Graphics
|
Robotics
Tags:
Artificial Intelligence
|
Digital Twin
|
Into the Omniverse
|
Isaac
|
Omniverse
|
Physical AI
|
Robotics
|
Simulation and Design
|
Synthetic Data Generation
All NVIDIA News
The Engines of American-Made Intelligence: NVIDIA and TSMC Celebrate First NVIDIA Blackwell Wafer Produced in the US
Open Source AI Week — How Developers and Contributors Are Advancing AI Innovation
Ready, Set, Reward — GeForce NOW Membership Rewards Await
How Starcloud Is Bringing Data Centers to Outer Space
Oracle and NVIDIA Accelerate Sovereign AI, Enabling Abu Dhabi’s AI-Native Government Transformation