Title: NVIDIA Pledges AI Education Funding for K-12 Programs
Source: https://blogs.nvidia.com/blog/ai-education-k-12/

---

NVIDIA Pledges AI Education Funding for K-12 Programs
At White House event, company commits to enabling learning programs adapted from the NVIDIA Deep Learning Institute with a commitment valued at $25 million for the initiative.
September 4, 2025
by
Louis Stewart
Share
Email
0
NVIDIA today announced new AI education support for K-12 programs at a White House event to celebrate public-private partnerships that advance artificial intelligence education for America’s youth.
The commitment comes after recent NVIDIA announcements to support AI education and academic research, including a
$30 million contribution
to the National AI Intelligence Research pilot and a U.S. National Science Foundation partnership in support of academic research. Over the last five years, NVIDIA has invested $125 million in higher education and academic research in the United States.
Pledging $25 million in support with AI education programs, NVIDIA is partnering with
Study Fetch
and
CK-12
— two leading K-12 learning platforms — to tailor the
NVIDIA Deep Learning Institute
(DLI) and
NVIDIA Academy
content offerings to meet the instructional needs of U.S. K-12 classrooms.
The NVIDIA effort aligns with the White House executive order Advancing Artificial Intelligence Education for American Youth, announced in April. Additionally, in support of the executive order,
NVIDIA signed the White House’s Pledge to America’s Youth: Investing in AI Education,
committing to delivering AI literacy, credentialing and educator enablement.
Supporting America’s Educators in Driving AI Literacy
In the first year, NVIDIA will support curriculum adaptation, platform integration, educator training, institutional engagement and ecosystem-wide outreach.
The NVIDIA DLI program integrations with Study Fetch and CK-12 will make available NVIDIA’s industry-leading training materials to help empower high school educators in applying DLI Teaching Kits.
NVIDIA DLI courses are geared toward teaching professional skills to developers. NVIDIA is partnering with Study Fetch and CK-12, which will curate the course material content for high school students to get hands-on experience with AI, aiming to spark curiosity, build practical skills and prepare the next generation of job seekers to thrive in the AI-driven economy.
The NVIDIA partnership aims to reach 1 million K-12 students within three years.
Preparing the Next Generation for AI Leadership
The White House initiative and NVIDIA commitments are united on a central mission to drive American leadership in AI.
Winning the AI Race: America’s AI Action Plan
was announced
in July by the White House, supported with executive orders to accelerate federal permitting of data center infrastructure and promote exportation of the American AI technology stack.
Aligned with the White House AI Action Plan, NVIDIA and the U.S. National Science Foundation
recently committed
$152 million in support to Ai2 for the development of open AI models to drive U.S. academic and nonprofit scientific leadership.
Categories:
Corporate
Tags:
Deep Learning Institute
|
Education
All NVIDIA News
Open Source AI Week — How Developers and Contributors Are Advancing AI Innovation
Ready, Set, Reward — GeForce NOW Membership Rewards Await
How Starcloud Is Bringing Data Centers to Outer Space
Oracle and NVIDIA Accelerate Sovereign AI, Enabling Abu Dhabi’s AI-Native Government Transformation
NVIDIA and Oracle to Accelerate Enterprise AI and Data Processing