Title: At Climate Week NYC, NVIDIA Details AI’s Key Role in Energy Efficiency
Source: https://blogs.nvidia.com/blog/ai-energy-innovation-climate-research/

---

At Climate Week NYC, NVIDIA Details AI’s Key Role in Energy Efficiency
New research highlights how energy-efficient infrastructure and AI models can propel innovation in climate, energy and beyond.
September 23, 2025
by
Josh Parker
Share
Email
0
Energy efficiency in large language model inference has improved
100,000x
in the past 10 years — demonstrating that accelerated computing is sustainable computing.
At
Climate Week NYC
, taking place through Sept. 26 in New York City, NVIDIA is showcasing how accelerated computing is propelling energy savings and advancing climate research.
The summit brings together researchers, startups, scientists, technologists, nonprofits and policymakers to discuss bold ideas for climate action. This year’s theme is energy: where it comes from, how to scale it and how AI can optimize the grid in newfound ways.
Throughout the week, NVIDIA will be highlighting its own innovative climate technologies, as well as a pair of recently published product carbon footprint reports on the emissions intensity of NVIDIA GPUs.
AI Usage Isn’t Black and White — It Can Actually Be Green
AI can play a critical role in stabilizing energy grids by pinpointing anomalies at a rapid rate. These timely insights can allow operators to respond to issues efficiently before they affect the larger grid.
Forecasted AI-Induced Energy Savings Across Energy-Intensive Sectors by 2035
Sector
Subsector
2035 AI Energy Savings (%)
2035 Demand: Reference Case Scenario (in petajoules)
Industry
Iron and Steel
3
1,160
Industry
Cement
4
500
Industry
Chemicals
2
10,440
Industry
Aluminum
4
260
Industry
Paper
2
1,860
Industry
Other
8
13,650
Transportation
Light commercial vehicles
6
8,160
Transportation
Heavy duty trucks
3
3,670
Transportation
Cars
3
4,460
Transportation
Buses
6
1,690
Transportation
Aviation
4
3,120
Transportation
Shipping
4
940
Transportation
Rail
7
530
Buildings
Residential
1
4,780
Buildings
Non-residential
4
1,760
Data Sources: Davide D’Ambrosio et al.,
Energy and AI
(Paris: International Energy Agency, April 2025) and “
Net Zero America: Potential Pathways, Infrastructure, and Impacts
,” Princeton University, as featured in CSIS’ report “
AI for the Grid
.”
According to
Net-Zero America Project’s
calculations, if AI applications are fully adopted, nearly
4.5%
of projected energy demand in 2035 will be saved across the three most energy-intensive sectors — industry, transportation and buildings.
NVIDIA joined a Climate Week panel discussion on
AI: Powering a More Productive Energy Future
yesterday following the release of
Center for Strategic and International Studies
findings on AI and energy. Panelists included Crusoe Energy Systems, a company that builds and operates clean computing infrastructure, and Emerald AI, a startup developing an AI solution to control data center power use during times of peak grid demand.
This discussion centered around how AI will advance sustainability solutions at an unprecedented pace–from responsible grid and power infrastructure scaling  to reliable transportation and nuclear energy optimization.
Startup Ecosystem Advances AI Energy Efficiency, Sustainability Projects
Emerald AI
, a
NVIDIA NVentures
portfolio company, is collaborating with NVIDIA on a recently unveiled
NVIDIA Omniverse Blueprint
for building high-performance, grid-friendly and energy-efficient AI infrastructure.
This new reference design
enables the transformation of data centers into fully integrated AI factories — optimized so that every watt of energy contributes to intelligence generation.
“As a collaborator on NVIDIA’s reference design for giga-scale AI factories, we’re helping prove that AI compute can be power-flexible,” said Varun Sivaram, founder and CEO of Emerald AI. “It’s a paradigm shift with a massive prize: unlocking 100 gigawatts of untapped power grid capacity and resolving AI’s energy bottleneck while promoting affordable, reliable and clean power grids.”
Emerald AI is a member of the NVIDIA Inception program for startups, within the Sustainable Futures initiative. These companies are pioneering developments in fields such as green computing, sustainable infrastructure, wildlife conservation and more.
Sustainable Futures members
Vibrant Planet
,
FortyGuard
,
Pachama
and
Wherobots
are also attending this week’s summit.
Decreasing the Carbon Footprint of NVIDIA Products and Operations
NVIDIA is continuously working to decrease its own carbon footprint.
Its first
product carbon footprint summary comparison
was recently released — revealing a
24%
reduction in embodied carbon emissions intensity between
NVIDIA HGX H100
and
HGX B200
baseboards.
Scope and methodology of the product carbon footprint analysis for NVIDIA HGX B200.
NVIDIA will continue to publish product carbon footprint summaries of newly released products to spotlight improvements in energy efficiency and sustainability.
In terms of NVIDIA’s physical footprint, all offices and data centers under the company’s operational control run on
100%
renewable energy — and carbon-free electricity is purchased to cover
100%
of the company’s leased data centers’ footprint.
NVIDIA headquarters in Santa Clara, California
Applying AI to Climate and Weather Research
High-resolution, AI-powered weather models are helping strengthen energy systems and reduce vulnerability to unpredictable climate events.
When used to support energy grid stability, these simulations can help utilities more precisely direct maintenance crews to remove obstacles close to power lines ahead of storms.
AI-driven climate models are also poised to increase the adoption and usage of renewables across the energy grid by lowering costs and ramping up efficiency.
Josh Parker, head of sustainability at NVIDIA, and Holly Paeper, president of commercial HVAC Americas for Trane Technologies, spoke during a Climate Week NYC fireside chat at the Nest Climate Campus.
With these climate models, grid operators can accurately determine factors like the amount of power wind turbines will generate on a given day, or how much energy collected in solar batteries will need to be saved to compensate and keep a city’s lights on and stable.
These insights can help energy providers manage load and lower the cost of adopting renewables, presenting a path forward to decarbonize the grid.
The
NVIDIA Earth-2
platform offers tools, microservices, and reference implementations that help developers build applications to simulate and visualize weather and climate predictions at a global scale.
Mike Pritchard, director of climate simulation research at NVIDIA, spoke on a Climate Week panel about AI and climate science at the Columbia Engineering Innovation Hub.
Work powered by Earth-2 is featured on an array of panels at Climate Week, including
Columbia University’s GenAI for Climate Science
,
AI for Energy and Energy for AI
,
Where the Internet Lives, Presented by Google
, and the
AWS Climate Tech & AI Forum
.
Learn more about
NVIDIA Earth-2
and
sustainable computing
solutions.
Categories:
Corporate Sustainability
|
Data Center
|
Generative AI
Tags:
Artificial Intelligence
|
Climate
|
Earth-2
|
Energy
All NVIDIA News
The Engines of American-Made Intelligence: NVIDIA and TSMC Celebrate First NVIDIA Blackwell Wafer Produced in the US
Open Source AI Week — How Developers and Contributors Are Advancing AI Innovation
Ready, Set, Reward — GeForce NOW Membership Rewards Await
How Starcloud Is Bringing Data Centers to Outer Space
Oracle and NVIDIA Accelerate Sovereign AI, Enabling Abu Dhabi’s AI-Native Government Transformation